Let's go back to family.
Your children went to A&M Consolidated, and you felt comfortable with that school system.
Were you all church goers?
Not really.
I never was.
I was born and raised a Roman Catholic, but I never was serious about it.
And my wife's a Methodist.
I married her in a Methodist church.
And I tell you, to me, the most boring hour is 11 o'clock on Sunday morning.
I mean I don't get any spiritual satisfaction out of that.
But that's me.
That's just, it is I. Where did you and family travel for fun, for vacation?
You don't mean when I was a kid.
No, no, no.
You and your wife and children.
Well since I had family in New York we'd go there.
We, my daughters, one went to Tulane, the other one went to Rice, so we went to New Orleans quite often, quite often.
She has family up in Utah and we go up there quite regularly, very pleasant.
She's a Mormon actually, her cousin.
But a pleasant visit, the only problem I had, not being able to get a Coke or a cup of coffee at Brigham Young, but other than that's no problem.
Countryside's beautiful.
I have relatives in California and San Francisco area, we go there.
So we've gone around quite a bit.
Do you have any avocation, hobbies?
Yeah I've become a fairly
I wouldn't say serious, but good stamp collector.
I used to take great pictures.
I was a really good photographer and I haven't been able to do as well as when I was a youngster.
What, in stamp collecting, what are your specials?
Just U.S.
I collect foreign ones, but these are just ones that people who do my work give me.
and letters I get.
I spend no money on foreign stamps.
But if you were showing your collection to a very well-informed philatelist, what would be the prize?
Oh yeah, I've got a good one.
I had a friend in graduate school at the University of Kansas.
Like I said, there was a lot of military people after the war.
This fellow was a Filipino officer.
And he presented me with a set of stamps that were overcharges of the Japanese stamps, some kind of a freedom stamp on that.
And I've got about four or five of those envelopes covered with these freedom stamps, liberation stamps, I forget.
But I showed these to a real serious stamp collector, a man you know.
Phillips, Clint Phillips, who told me they are really valuable.
Are these from the Philippines?
They're from the Philippines, yeah.
Other than that, I've got a huge collection of first day covers going back to the 40s.
And I've got them all now very, very well organized.
That's one of the things I've done while I've been retired.
But you're retired but you still come to campus.
Well I've still got a research project.
And like I told you I'm hoping it turns out to be the star in my crown.
Normally you're here about how much?
Oh I get in about 9.30 to 10.
I go home about 1230.
I eat some lunch, usually very light.
Then I take a nap for an hour.
But I don't take a nap.
I turn on the TV and listen to Rush Limbaugh, one of those idiots.
He's not an idiot, but he gets a little bit annoying at times.
And then I come back for an hour or so in the afternoon.
I get papers to review.
These kids are busy writing manuscripts.
I stay in touch with my coworkers at M.D.
Anderson regularly.
So I'm not real busy, but I've got enough to keep life interesting.
And do you have any physical hobbies?
Oh, I go to.
Yeah I go there.
I run two miles and I do some weights.
But nothing more than that.
I used to go to the, oh heck, what do they call it, when the girls in the front of the room you'd follow those procedures.
Well I don't go there anymore because I don't like looking at those 19, 20 and 20 year old fannies anymore.
How would you describe
the changes at Texas A&M in general since you first arrived?
Oh, well, they've been revolutionary.
I mean, this was a provincial little school whose only function was to give people a good bachelor's degree and nothing more.
There was no pretension of scholarship, really.
And now I think that, you know, it's a first-class university.
Maybe not first class, but getting there if it's not there.
Certainly chemistry, I think, is first class.
I think chemical engineering is right up there.
And probably electrical engineering is very good.
Physics is quite good.
And I can't speak for the other departments.
I don't know them that well.
Well, let me put it this way.
When I go somewhere now, I'm proud to say I'm a professor at Texas A&M.
You know, I feel it's a prestigious thing.
As you look back, has chemistry missed any opportunities that it might have used more effectively here?
Well, the only thing I can say, it could have started earlier.
It should have started earlier.
Other than that?
No, I don't think so.
I think with Martell and the aggressive department heads,
Did we lose any star?
Did we have somebody and let them get away?
Yes, that has happened.
And I'm trying to think of a particular case of, oh yeah, I forget, Shui Chen, something, we had a Chinese fellow that went to Scripps Institute in San Diego.
That was really a first class guy.
And it's happened with a few others, too.
Now, am I correct that there is a good blend in the chemistry faculty of people that came here as comparative beginners and worked their way up, and others who were brought here as very senior people?
Yeah, that's diminished lately.
We don't have many.
A lot of the really good people we had like Cotton, like Scott, or like Barton were brought in.
They were top-notch people already.
We sort of don't need them anymore because fortunately the people that have come in, the younger people, are good.
So they're getting recognition of their own.
Okay.
Are there any new special areas of emphasis that chemistry ought to work on more?
Gee, I think we've got a good spectrum of interests, and you know, we include all of the areas which are currently fashionable.
Is the graduate program about the appropriate size?
Yeah, I wouldn't want to see it to get any bigger.
I think it's sufficiently big.
Oh, 250 plus graduate students, that's plenty.
About how many doctoral students per year?
Are getting out?
The figure I give you is unofficial.
I'd say twenty to twenty-five.
But it's usually right at the top nationally.
And it's overwhelmingly international students?
At present.
It didn't used to be quite, but at present it's- Three out of four?
Well I don't think it's that many yet, but maybe five out of eight
And regardless of where they're from, are the students well prepared when they get here?
We're getting quality students now.
And of course, the China sends us their best.
I mean, I've had a number of them.
They are not only bright, very bright, but hardworking.
How do you initiate the working relationship with a student who is a newcomer to the United States?
Well, hopefully we can communicate orally.
it can be a problem.
But these people generally are, you know I've found them to be self-starters.
You don't have to prod them too much or direct them too much.
They're interested in their own personal progress.
And they have good work habits.
Oh yeah.
You bet.
On average I'd say the average Chinese kid works a good deal harder than the average American kid.
And if you had a choice to pick only one, a typical Chinese, a typical India, a typical Korean, a typical American, which would you pick?
Well, I would take the American if he came with good recommendations, because the communication is so much easier.
And the other secondly Chinese, without question.
Because I've just had some such good
Now, are there a number of women in the graduate program now?
Oh, yeah.
The number of women going into chemistry has increased tremendously in recent years.
And they are good students also?
Sure.
You bet.
All right.
If you were the new consultant hired after a national search to advise the chemistry leadership.
Nationally?
Here.
Oh, here.
What advice would you give them?
Well number one I'd say look at what your competitors are doing in the way of money to the teaching assistants for the simple reasons this is what gets you good graduate students.
You've got to be competitive.
You just won't get the students if you're not.
Another thing I would do if it were possible, have, see we've got this English tutor program, something like that, but you've got to pay good money for that.
I would make that available gratis, because we lose a lot of, well, I said input, or I said productivity, I guess is the word I want, of these Chinese kids, especially because of the language.
The language barrier is such a big one.
So I would say you should make that available.
Have classes that are free and require them to go, but they don't go because it's of the money involved.
The other thing, you know, be sure that the administration is willing to provide you with the latest instrumentation.
Because there again, that's the only way you can compete with your peers and with the national scene and the international scene.
They've got to be able to do the types of experiments that are expected these days.
Now, they have been doing that lately.
I'm not saying they're not.
Just keep it up.
Yeah, keep it up.
All right, now you've just been promoted as a consultant and you're advising the campus leadership.
What advice would you give Texas A&M's leadership?
Oh, what I would say is go over to a chairmanship system instead of heads.
You should think enough of your faculty to know that they can handle this type of government.
That's one thing I would tell them to do.
Another thing, you know, look at these teaching loads.
If you expect, that's not, chemistry's very good now, but I understand some departments have very heavy teaching loads.
If you expect scholarship from your professors, you've got to give them enough time to devote to scholarship.
So if they've got
Four courses to teach, there's no way on earth you can seriously expect, you know, intellectual productivity from these people.
And then, of course, you've got to look at your salaries.
Are they competitive?
How do we compare, as far as you know, there?
Salary-wise?
Well, I don't know, because I honestly don't know.
I think in chemistry we are competitive.
I don't know about English and modern languages and histories.
I don't think we are there.
I assume we are in the sciences.
I think in history, I mean in chemistry, we definitely are because we're getting a high caliber of people coming in and you won't get them unless you are competitive.
Is there, again we're now at the institutional level, are there a few universities that you would think we ought to study carefully as our model
Well I think the first class public universities, I don't think you want to look at Stanford and Harvard, which they do, but that's not realistic.
Who do you think are the first class publics?
Well Michigan is way up there.
Texas is way up there.
UC Berkeley is way up there.
But Michigan and Purdue is way up there.
Should we attempt to increase the enrollment?
No, I don't think that this increasing enrollment accomplishes anything.
Hell, this is a big school.
It's big enough.
If the demand is there, you'll probably have the obligation as a public institution to increase it.
What about the admission requirements?
Well, I don't know where they are now, but I think you should make them as high as possible.
There'll be no doubt about that.
Let's say you want to keep it at 43,000.
then you should strive to get a better quality all the time.
There are lots of public institutions where you can go and get a college education.
Well, heck, send them there.
Hey, you've been here a long time.
You bet.
Why did you stay here?
Why did I stay?
Well, once I got my research grants,
And especially I've got to say Arthur Martell, I could see that things would happen here.
I felt good about my future.
When did you begin to think more positively about the community?
Good Lord, I can't give you a date but when they, you know, more restaurants came in and more shopping centers and
Because living here, and heck you can even buy imported Italian prosciutto now in this town, you know, which to me means a great deal.
Have you made any acquaintances with the old Italian families in Bryan?
No.
I know Johnny Lample, but I thought, well I've got some Italian friends, but they are people who came from Italy.
And they bought property here.
They're well-to-do people.
They bought farming land here.
And I know them extremely well.
Spent a lot of time together.
Plus I can practice my language, too.
Well, I mean, you know, Italian sounds good.
Did you grow up speaking Italian?
Yes.
Oh, really?
Did you all speak at home?
At home, yeah, of course.
At school it was English.
It was not bilingual, it was English at school.
And did you learn both languages as a child?
Oh, yes.
You have to.
I mean, like I say, school was English, stores were English, so it's not like trying to accommodate.
I get a little annoyed at this bilingual business these days.
If you speak Spanish at home, that's fine.
But heck, school should not accommodate you language-wise.
In El Paso, a fine Mexican-American businessman told me, in a democratic society,
one of the purposes of the government is to teach the language of the marketplace.
He said, the language of the marketplace in this country is English, and if you can't speak English fluently, you're economically disadvantaged.
Then he said, if I want my children also to know Spanish, that is my responsibility.
And I'm grateful if the schools help, but English should be first, and I agree with him.
Absolutely.
He's perfectly right.
When some stranger, some old, old friend that you haven't seen for 40 years, if they were to contact you and say, well, tell me about Texas A&M.
Describe Texas A&M.
How do you describe Texas A&M?
Well, first of all, I'll tell them it's the third or fourth largest university in the land.
Mm-hmm.
I tell them, well of course I'm in chemistry, I tell them we've got a first class chemistry department and we've got what's rated as the best engineering school in the nation in chemical engineering.
I think our engineering school was rated very high by U.S.
News and World Report.
And you know, I tell them our facilities are our first class.
I'll tell them our students don't walk, or most of them with few exceptions don't go around with earrings in their nose.
courteous, polite students, which is true.
I mean I never had real problems except for that one core boy.
I never had a problem all these years, never.
You know I think they're good students, I enjoy them and I think they're competent.
So that's the kind of things I would tell them.
Are you optimistic about A&M's?
Oh absolutely.
Yeah.
I think it's got a great future.
Some years back, a good many years back, we had these foreign student clubs, the Arab students, the Mexican students, the Chinese students, etc.
And they would, I don't know if they exist anymore because at that time, and I'm going back a good many years, they would invite me.
They would have dinners.
And generally the food was very, very good.
One group had the very best food and that was the Arab students.
I was just so surprised, I didn't know anything about Arab food, but it was absolutely great, really good.
That's one of the things I remember very fondly by the way.
No, I think everything else on this list we've covered.
Has anybody ever teased you about a New York accent?
No.
At AMN?
No way?
No, when I first got here.
Okay.
But I think it's largely dissipated.
What do you think?
I'm sure parts of it are still there.
I can tell a little that you're a New Yorker, and I love regional accents.
I don't want us to all sound exactly alike.
No, absolutely.
But I think.
I don't have nearly the accent I used to have.
It's pretty much gone.
But I'm sure the residues are still there.
Okay, get near the end now.
To what people related to Texas A&M are you now most grateful after 40... You mean on a personal basis or just people who have come?
Either way.
Well I'm trying to think of real A&M.
Well you know some of the people I've gotten in so well that I admire greatly are the physicians in this town.
Most of them, a number of them with whom I have been involved are A&M graduates.
And first of all I think they're fine physicians, and secondly we've developed a really
pleasant personal relationship, specifically the old James Bonds who got his degree here, and the urologist, Harris, Sam Harrison, Sam Harrison, who got his bachelor's degree here.
But aside from that, I have great remembrance and fond respect for Loretta, he's gone.
I still, you know, Charlie Holland and I still see each other and have lunch, not often, but regularly.
And I, you know, I admire the guy and I enjoy his company.
I never got close to him, but I respect the man.
I think, you know, if somebody accomplished what he did, it merits respect.
He's deceased?
No, no, but he's not well at all.
He's getting dialysis regularly.
So I probably couldn't interview him very easily.
You could try.
Does he live here?
He lives a few miles out of town.
He's got a house out in the country, but he comes in.
If and when you see him... I can mention this type of thing to him.
Yeah, and describe it as you, for better or for worse, describe... You'd probably have to go see him.
Oh, of course.
He's not that well.
Oh, I'd go wherever he wanted.
Okay.
If he would like.
And his speech is somewhat impaired because he had a stroke.
Who else in the department do you feel most grateful to?
Well you see, most of the people with whom I was involved are gone.
That's all right.
Now you want, have you talked with Peter Rodriguez?
No.
Oh you get in touch with him.
Oh I want to.
He knows this department from A to Z. Yes, oh I want to.
You do that if you want to know something about the chemistry department here.
I'm thinking about to see some of the people that are still here that know something about the past and there are not many of them.
Were there some key people in the chemistry department office, some secretaries?
Well, the only one that's been there a really long time is Judy Ludwig.
Judy Ludwig's been there good many years.
Now, on campus,
Except you can't get her, she never answered her phone.
Jody Trankman, she works over in marketing now.
But she was here at Good Peace back in, oh good heavens.
I'd say 70 to 76 thereabouts.
But she worked with Beckham and oh I know another guy I can talk to.
And he's retired, he's an old man, Fred Cecilio.
Oh I hadn't thought about him.
Fred Cecilio.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
He'd be glad to talk to you.
Okay.
All right.
Last two questions then.
Okay.
Let's make believe that someone hands you a check for a million dollars or more with one restriction.
You must pass that money to Texas A&M, but you decide... How I want to spend it?
Oh, yeah.
I think I put it into student scholarships.
For what kind of students?
No, I think they should, I hate to say they should be for this time, just any, the best qualified students.
Undergraduates?
Oh, yeah, yeah, undergraduates.
How do you select the winners?
Well, don't we have a committee here on campus?
But how would you want it done?
Oh, I'd simply, I mean, if I were making the decision, number one, I'd want to know nothing about
their family background or anything.
I have one application with a number on it.
I don't want to know if it's a man or a woman, black, white, or... Strictly on ability?
Yes, yes, that's right.
Does it matter what they're majoring in?
No, absolutely not.
I agree with you entirely.
That's what I've always thought is the fair way.
No, they could major in anything they like.
Okay, then the last question.
What feelings about Texas A&M do you carry in your heart?
Well, I've grown to love the place.
It's home, you know, it's home.
Like people say, you're retired, you're going to go to California or Florida.
No, I said, this is home.
I love the place.
I mean, I really have an affection for it.
Can it be otherwise after this many years?